# Design of 8-bit Processor using Reversible Logic

Reversible computation received significant attention in low power dissipating circuit design in the past few years. Classical computation involves irreversible logic gates which inevitably generate heat. To achieve low power consumption reversible logic becomes a competent technology that has both forward and backward deterministic. In this project, two main design approaches are focussed. The former presents the implementation of new Reversible Basic gates using the Gate Diffusion Technique. The performance of the proposed gate is evaluated with different logic in terms of power, delay, and the number of transistors. The latter presents the realization of an 8-bit reversible processor using TOFFOLI and FREDKIN gate as basic gates. The functional block of the processor includes the arithmetic and logical unit. The main objective of this project is to design and analyze the 16-bit reversible arithmetic logic unit using reversible logic gates with Gate Diffusion Input (GDI) logic design technique.

Transistor count is a primary concern that largely affects the design complexity of a larger circuit. For such submicron CMOS technology areas, topology selection, power dissipation, and speed are a very important aspect for high speed and low power applications. This method is suitable for the design of fast, low-power circuits, using a reduced number of transistors (as compared to TG and CMOS). All the design aspect, simulation, and performance evaluation are done using Tanner EDA version 14.11, ModelSim 6.5b, and Xilinx version 14.2.

Programming Language: VHDL
